List of Laboratory Assignments 
Group A: Assignments based on the Hadoop 
1. Single node/Multiple node Hadoop Installation. 
2. Design a distributed application using MapReduce(Using Java) which processes a log file of a 
system. List out the users who have logged for maximum period on the system. Use simple log file 
from the Internet and process it using a pseudo distribution mode on Hadoop platform. 
3. Write an application using HiveQL for flight information system which will include 
a. Creating, Dropping, and altering Database tables. 
b. Creating an external Hive table. 
c. Load table with data, insert new values and field in the table, Join tables with Hive 
d. Create index on Flight Information Table 
e. Find the average departure delay per day in 2008.
Group B: Assignments based on Data Analytics using Python 
1. Perform the following operations using Python on the Facebook metrics data sets 
a. Create data subsets 
b. Merge Data 
c. Sort Data 
d. Transposing Data 
e. Shape and reshape Data 
2. Perform the following operations using Python on the Air quality and Heart Diseases data sets 
a. Data cleaning 
b. Data integration 
c. Data transformation 
d. Error correcting 
e. Data model building 
3. Integrate Python and Hadoop and perform the following operations on forest fire dataset 
a. Data analysis using the Map Reduce in PyHadoop 
b. Data mining in Hive 
4. Visualize the data using Python libraries matplotlib, seaborn by plotting the graphs for assignment 
no. 2 and 3 ( Group B) 
5. Perform the following data visualization operations using Tableau on Adult and Iris datasets. 
a. 1D (Linear) Data visualization 
b. 2D (Planar) Data Visualization 
c. 3D (Volumetric) Data Visualization 
d. Temporal Data Visualization 
e. Multidimensional Data Visualization 
f. Tree/ Hierarchical Data visualization 
g. Network Data visualization 
Group C: Model Implementation 
1. Create a review scrapper for any ecommerce website to fetch real time comments, reviews, 
ratings, comment tags, customer name using Python. 
2. Develop a mini project in a group using different predictive models techniques to solve any real life 
problem. (Refer link dataset- https://www.kaggle.com/tanmoyie/us-graduate-schools- admission- 
parameters)